# Crowdfunding_ETL

This is an ETL mini project that I will work on to practice building an ETL pipeline using Python, Pandas, and regular expressions to extract and transform the data. After transforming the data, I will create four CSV files and use the CSV file data to create an ERD and a table schema. Finally, I will upload the CSV file data into a Postgres database.

Instructions on how to run the the crowdfunding_db_schema.sql. Please note that this code should be run in pgAdmin 4.

First off, you would have to create a database to run the files in. You can name it crowdfunding_db or any name you want. 

Next, you want to create a Query Tool and import the crowdfunding_db_schema.sql file.

Now, you do not want to run all the codes at once. Instructions to run the codes will be listed below:

  - First highlight all the "DROP TABLE IF EXISTS" codes all the way to the end of the "CREATE TABLE "campaign"" codes that ends with this: ");".

  - After you run that portion of the code, you should be able to highlight each part or all of the CREATE TABLE codes and create the rest of the tables. Stop there   and do not run the "SELECT*FROM" codes.

  - Next, you want to "Schemas" and then "Tables" in pgAdmin 4 and right click on each table to import the data. You can start from the campaign table, to the category table, then contacts table, and lastly subcategory table.

  After importing all the files, you can run each "SELECT*FROM" codes for each table and get the results to pull on up on your end.

  The "ALTER TABLE" codes do not need to be run as they were imported from creating a diagram with the QuickDBD website. If you would like to see how the diagram turned out, you can view the image crowdfunding_diagram.png located in the resources folder

References

Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

OpenAI. (2023). ChatGPT (Mar 14 version) [Large language model]. Accessed on Jan 2025. I used this website for help with ETL_Mini_Project_Starter_Code.ipynb.ipynb step 5 for help with splitting the "category & sub-category" column into two separate columns: 'category' and 'subcategory'. Retrieved from https://chat.openai.com/chat

OpenAI. (2023). ChatGPT (Mar 14 version) [Large language model]. Accessed on Jan 2025. I used this website for help with ETL_Mini_Project_Starter_Code.ipynb.ipynb step 18 for help with formatting the launched_date and end_date columns to datetime format. Retrieved from https://chat.openai.com/chat

OpenAI. (2023). ChatGPT (Mar 14 version) [Large language model]. Accessed on Jan 2025. I used this website for help with ETL_Mini_Project_Starter_Code.ipynb.ipynb step 19 for help with merging the campaign_df with the category_df on the "category" column and the subcategory_df on the "subcategory" column. Retrieved from https://chat.openai.com/chat

OpenAI. (2023). ChatGPT (Mar 14 version) [Large language model]. Accessed on Jan 2025. I used this website for help with ETL_Mini_Project_Starter_Code.ipynb.ipynb step 23 for how to use json to iterate through the contact_info_df and convert each rwo to a dictionary. It specifically helped me with the for and in function: "for _, row in contact_info_df.iterrows():". Retrieved from https://chat.openai.com/chat

OpenAI. (2023). ChatGPT (Mar 14 version) [Large language model]. Accessed on Jan 2025. I used this website for help with ETL_Mini_Project_Starter_Code.ipynb.ipynb step 23 for how to use json to iterate through the contact_info_df and convert each rwo to a dictionary. It specifically helped me with the for and in function: "for _, row in contact_info_df.iterrows():". Retrieved from https://chat.openai.com/chat

Thomas Bogue. Jan 2025. With Thoma's help, I was able to complete my json code for the ETL_Mini_Project_Starter_Code.ipynb.ipynb step 23. Thomas helped provided me with this code in specific to make my codes run smoothly: "row_dict = json.loads(row.iloc[0])". University of Minnesota Data Visualization and Analytics Boot Camp Tutoring Session, EdX Boot Camps.

OpenAI. (2023). ChatGPT (Mar 14 version) [Large language model]. Accessed on Jan 2025. I used this website for help with ETL_Mini_Project_Starter_Code.ipynb.ipynb step 34 with using the str.extract function to extract specific patterns from each string in the 'contact_info' column with my regular expression (regex) codes. Retrieved from https://chat.openai.com/chat
